Dirk Johan Stromberg is an American Sound Designer, Audio Technology, Maker, Improvisor, and Production Designer. His body of work explores the dynamic interaction between performer and technology in performance practice. Designing both hardware and software has led to the development of a variety of interfaces, synthesis techniques, installation works, electro-acoustic instruments, and interdisciplinary production works.

Dirk Stromberg’s nomadic upbringing began in Minneapolis before taking him from the US, UK, Switzerland, and the Netherlands. His family relocated to the US when he was a teenager where he completed his education in Texas and New York. After completing his Masters in 2004, Dirk went to Europe with the intention of continuing his studies but while there, circumstances led to travel the Far East. For the next year, he spent his time in South East Asia working on a commission, Tropendrift, and playing guitar on a cruise ship in the Gulf of Mexico before finally settling in Turkey for a faculty position. In 2007 he moved to Vietnam to start a contemporary music festival. From 2007 to 2009 he lived in Vietnam, Thailand, and the Philippines before settling in Singapore in 2009. 

Singapore has been Dirk Stromberg’s home since 2009. He worked as a lecturer of composition and technology and eventually the Head of Music at the School of the Arts, Singapore (SOTA). Since 2015 he has been a lecturer at LASALLE College of the Arts, Singapore, where he oversees the live sound curriculum as part of the Audio Production program. Dirk Stromberg works extensively in the local industry as a consultant, educator, workshop leader, audio engineer, sound designer, and performer. 

He has been a composer in residence at STEIM (Studio for Electronic Instrumental Music) and Brooklyn Center for Computer Music and has received recognition for his work from ISAM (Institute for Study in American Music) and MATA (Music at the Anthology). In 2011 he was an artist in residence at Monmouth College where he collaborated for the creation of a score and performance of The Tempest. He has also been an artist in Residence twice at SLOSS Furnaces in Birmingham, Alabama, which culminated in the trans-disciplinary work “Convergence” in 2016. Dirk has been presenting his research at conferences such as Music Tech Fest (Umea, Sweden), Temp-Ora (Bordeaux, France), Sound Islands ‘15 (NTU, Singapore), Geek Talks (Hackerspace, Singapore), MiNT Conference (Halifax Canada), Audio Mostly (Wale, UK), and South East Directors of Music (Salaya, Thailand).

Current projects include a series of presentations and development ofhis tactile interactive installation “Line Segments” and the collaborative video and movement work “Images of Ascension”. His touring has led to several performances in Asia, North America, and Europe including Moers Festival (Moers Germany), KLEX Festival (Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia), Map Festival (Melaka, Malaysia), Choppa Festival (Singapore), Open Waters Festival (Halifax Canada), Duong Dai Festival (HCMC and Hanoi, Vietnam), M1 Fringe Festival (Singapore) and Dear Himalaya From Chiang Mai (Chiang Mai, Thailand).

Dirk Stromberg has been developing a number of hardware projects, most notably his Phallophone, an electro-acoustic sensor-based instrument. He is developing repertoire for the instrument with composers around the world, creating his repertoire, while also touring and presenting his work and research as a musician and technologist.

He has thrice worked on Art Creation Funds supported by the National Arts Council, Singapore – a major arts development grant. First as an instrument designer in 2010 for Joyce Koh’s “On the String” then as a collaborating composer, system designer, engineer and e-luthier for Robert Casteels’ 2014 work “2014:time:space:”, which has subsequently toured Europe and Asia as collaborative community work. In 2016 he worked on his third Arts Creation Fund as a composer and technology integrator for a premiere exhibition of “Hearing Images and Seeing Sounds”. 

He has released two albums with the Turkish improvisation group Islak Kopek as a performer and engineer and his music appears on several compilations. His 2008 album, Islak Kopek, was in the top 20 albums in Turkey for 2009. In de Knipscheer released a two-CD set of his composition, Tropendrift, in 2006, a collaboration with Dutch poet Albert Hagenaars. Mis most recent release is a multi-disciplinary work Images of Ascension in collaboration with director Clare Chong. 

Dirk Stromberg is a founder of the Contemporary Music Festival in Vietnam (Duong Dai Festival – 2007-2016) and is currently on faculty at LASALLE College of the Arts. He was formerly on faculty at Istanbul Bilgi University, Saigon Technology University, and was head of music at School of the Arts (SOTA), Singapore. He holds a Masters of Music from Brooklyn College and a Bachelor of Music from Texas Tech University.

